0:00 Okay, most people think that self-respect is something that you earn.
0:03 But the truth is self-respect is a daily set of behaviors. You don't feel self-respect. You do self-respect.
0:10 Self-respect is like fitness. You just do it one rep at a time. Every time you choose not to betray yourself.
0:16 And every time you betray yourself, you lose self-respect.
0:19 Every time you break a promise to yourself, you're showing the world how to treat you. And you show yourself how to treat you.
0:26 So many times that we catch ourselves pointing to the other person. And it's so often in the workplace, we're saying, "Well, that person doesn't respect me."
0:32 It's like, "Well, have I actually learned how to respect myself? Do I even know what self-respect looks like?"
0:36 It's a loop a lot of people get caught in. Someone disrespects you. It makes you feel small. You feel pissed off, frustrated, and angry. Then you think, "I've got to prove everybody wrong."
0:47 So you try harder to prove your worth. Then you lose more self-respect because you're trying to appease another person rather than yourself. And then you repeat the cycle.
0:56 Respecting yourself doesn't make you selfish. It makes you stable. When you respect yourself, your boundaries are clear. You have standards that are non-negotiable. And people around you know where they stand.
1:08 Trying to earn respect by tolerating disrespect is like trying to get healthy by eating cake and hoping your body's just not going to notice.
1:17 A lot of people lose respect for themselves because of what they say to other people. Then they walk away thinking, "I shouldn't have said that. I think I said too much. I'm not happy with how I showed up."
1:28 That's because they speak out of impulse and emotion. This is when people speak from unmanaged discomfort rather than speaking truthfully in alignment with the results they want.
1:37 A question I ask myself all the time is: what do I want to have happen from this conversation? What's the action I want this person to take? What would I like them to do when we get done talking?
1:47 I don't ask myself how I would like to feel. I ask myself what I would like to have happen.
1:52 A good example is if you're mad at your spouse because they didn't get you the gift you wanted on your birthday. You may be uncomfortable because you think about them so much on their birthday, but they forgot yours.
2:07 What do I want to have happen? I want them to think of me on my birthday. Is emotionally vomiting all over that person going to result in that, or will it result in them liking you less because you made them feel bad for an expectation they didn't know about?
2:22 People go around in the workplace, friendships, and relationships emotionally vomiting because it feels good in the short term and really bad in the long term, because you don't build self-respect.
2:33 Criticism can sting and feel terrible, even more than praise feels good. But what is criticism really?
2:41 Criticism is often when something about you or something you did makes somebody else uncomfortable. They don't know how to manage that discomfort, so they outsource it. They blame, label, diminish, demean, and judge you.
2:55 Judgment is another word for unmanaged discomfort. We all judge people. When somebody criticizes you, ask what belief their criticism contradicts about what you believe to be true in this world.
3:13 When they're criticizing you, ask yourself: what did I do to make them so uncomfortable? Breaking it down helps because you see it objectively rather than subjectively taking the emotional blow.
3:30 Once I understood that I do something, it makes somebody uncomfortable, and when they have low emotional regulation skills they criticize, make fun of, demean, and diminish me, it fundamentally changed everything.
3:42 A lot of people ask, "How do I get over criticism? How do I deal with all these people judging me?" The truth is, you don't. It happens. You anchor so deeply in your values that it makes all the criticism worth it.
3:55 If you don't anchor your identity somewhere solid that cannot be defeated by what people say about you, good or bad, you will drift into becoming a reflection of other people's preferences and desires.
4:11 There is no worse place than being a ghost of yourself that exists because of what other people want out of you.
4:19 If you define your values and ignore everything else, you can be the person you want to be.
